# Project-Team-5

Idea# 1: VoteChain

Problem: 
Today’s elections can be manipulated and voters can be coerced to vote against their will. Many a times, the credibility of the election process itself is questionable. In such a scenario, we need an election process that is transparent, fair, inexpensive and convenient. No singular protocol for managing votes. Voting equipment varies across jurisdiction. Several different voting systems are commonly employed, including paper ballots, Directly Recording Electronic (DRE) systems and Electronically operated vote counting machines (EVMs). Punch card voting systems are also used, as well as ballot marking devices to assist disabled voters. In addition to votes being cast in a multitude of way, that information is also recorded and stored non-uniformly. Paper ballots are typically scanned into a computer system, either at the polling place or a centralized location for that jurisdiction. DRE systems store vote information in the machine’s hard drive and some systems have the capacity to generate a paper audit trail, but not all jurisdictions maintain an audit trail. 

Also, sellers and producers of electronic voting machines were legally not obligated to notify anyone about problems cropping up in regards to their machines. Similarly, there exists no resource for public officials to learn about potential problems with their voting machines ahead of time

Solution:
The solution explores the current security shortcomings of the voting system, as well as the feasibility of an online voting system implemented using blockchain technology. Despite security risks and concerns, block-chain data storage in combination with electronic voting is a progressive and secure option for our voting systems. Blockchain technology makes it possible to attain a highly credible and verifiable election process at an inexpensive cost.

Idea# 2: B(PA)WARE

Problem:
Bisphenol-A also called as BPA is a toxic chemical component present in polycarbonate plastic used in the manufacturing of certain beverage containers and liners of canned food items. BPA-based containers have BPA-based liners which prevents the contents of the can from reacting with the can surface, hence preventing corrosion and leaching of can materials into food. But why is BPA toxic? It can mimic our hormones and disrupt the endocrine system which is the sole controller of functions of the body from a cellular level. Continuous and high level exposure to BPA can lead to altered immune system, structural brain damage and causes reproductive problems. In 2008, usage of BPA in the manufacturing of products made from polycarbonate plastic became a matter of serious concern which fueled FDA experts to conduct over 300 studies analyzing various consumer products and its conclusion helped to ban the use of BPA in baby bottles, sippy cups and other toddler items. But there are still many products out in the consumer world as stated above containing toxic chemicals, prolonged exposure to which can cause serious health problems. So being aware of the daily-use products and its contents has become inevitable to maintain a long lasting healthy body functionality.

Solution:
B(P)AWARE is a mobile application that provides instant information about a product’s BPA content or toxicity content by just scanning the barcode of a product. Since barcode is universally present in every product that enters the consumer world, the application uses it as an identifier to get the product’s information from the database. This aids consumer to become aware of products containing toxic substances, so, people will just be a scan away from being BPA aware. The application will also suggest products that are BPA free or new arrivals in the market as a substitute to the products containing BPA.

Idea# 3: Wether Forecast

Problem:
METEOROLOGY study found that when television meteorologists in Kansas predicted that there was a 100% chance of rain, and it didn’t rain at all one-third of the times it was reported. And there is much anecdotal evidence for forecasters’ unreliability. In 2009, heavy rains dampened a “barbecue summer” prediction by Britain’s Met office. In January last year American meteorologists apologised profusely on Twitter for predicting a “crippling” and “historic” blizzard that never arrived.The aim will be to achieve the precision of say, Google Maps, which “foretells” traffic conditions down the road in real-time. But given the cosmic odds, predicting the future accurately may remain a distant dream for meteorologists.The financial potential of enhanced weather prediction through big data is huge. According to Weather Analytics, 33% of worldwide GDP is affected by the weather. 

Solution:
Big weather data analysis helps to transform the data generated by organisations into actionable information. The Dutch government, which oversees an area of land that is for the most part both flat and under sea level, has become an expert at managing water. This in-depth knowledge allows the country to determine the best course of action when high water levels are expected, thereby reducing the severity of floods and water management costs and preventing environmental degradation.Weather Analytics says it ingests and analyses current, historical and forecast data from the US Government's weather service to seven days in the future. This global data is placed in a 35km by 35km grid, generating some 650,000 outputs at hourly intervals.We then extract pertinent variables and create/calculate numerous others. We store this massive amount of weather information in databases which allows us to: present the data quickly, calculate additional variables.The Met Office says that today's four-day forecasts are as accurate as one-day forecasts were 30 years ago using Big data
Big data techniques are essential for analysing that data and for enabling organisations to transform it into meaningful decisions.The aim of this level of processing is to enhance organisational, agricultural and transport efficiency, improve public safety and better carbon dioxide emissions. Big weather data is at the heart of all our futures, personal and corporate.

References: 
https://ranjanr.blogspot.com/
https://www.fda.gov/food/ingredientspackaginglabeling/foodadditivesingredients/ucm355155.htm
http://www.ibmbigdatahub.com/blog/business-value-weather-data

